docs(docs/design): PVF pre-check subsystem (#4780)
ChainSafe/gossamer: docs/docs/design/pvf-precheck.md

We can treat such errors as local node issues.
We also have an additional step where we attempt to instantiate the WASM runtime without running it. 
This is unrelated to preparation so we don't time it, but it does help us catch more issues.

Pre-checking is run when a new validation code is included in the chain. A new PVF can be added in two cases:
- A new parachain is registered.
- An existing parachain signalled an upgrade of its validation code.

Before any of those operations finish, the PVF pre-checking vote is initiated.
The PVF pre-checking vote is identified by the PVF code hash that is being voted on. If there is already PVF pre-checking process running, 
then no new PVF pre-checking vote will be started. Instead, the operation just subscribes to the existing vote.

2/3 of validators needed to vote for the PVF to be approved. If it is not collecting enough votes it is considered as rejected.

Only validators from the active set can participate in the vote. The set of active validators can change each session. 
That's why we reset the votes each session. A voting that observed a certain number of sessions will be rejected.

PVF-accepted:

> 1. All onboardings subscribed to the approved PVF pre-checking process will get scheduled and after passing 2 session boundaries they will be onboarded.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. All newly registered parachains that passed the PVF pre-checking process will get scheduled and after passing 2 session boundaries they will be onboarded.
```

> 2. All upgrades subscribed to the approved PVF pre-checking process will get scheduled very similarly to the existing process. 

Reviewer: What is "the existing process"/"the same process" you're referring to here?

   Upgrades with pre-checking are really the same process that is just delayed by the time required for pre-checking voting. 
   In case of instant approval the mechanism is exactly the same.

**PVF-rejection:**
If PVF pre check is rejected onboarding of the parachain or runtime upgrade will be rejected.

This logic described in [Paras Pallet](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/book/runtime/paras.html)

Off-chain part:

Node scan the chain for new PVF with calling runtime.

The first runtime API is designed to fetch all PVFs that require pre-checking voting. The PVFs are identified by their code hashes. 
As soon as the PVF gains required support, the runtime API will not return the PVF anymore.
```rust
fn pvfs_require_precheck() -> Vec<ValidationCodeHash>;
```

> If the new PVF found subsystem initiate PVF pre-checking request adn wait for the result. Then based on the result it submits the vote.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a new PVF was found, the subsystem sends a PVF pre-checking request to the candidate validation subsystem and waits for the result. Then based on the result it submits the vote.
```

> ThThe second runtime API is needed to submit the judgement for a PVF, whether it is approved or not. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The second runtime API is needed to submit the judgement for a PVF, whether it is approved or not. 
```

    /// The index of the validator from which this statement originates.
    pub validator_index: ValidatorIndex,
}
```

There is no dedicated input mechanism for PVF pre-checker. Instead, PVF pre-checker looks on the ActiveLeavesUpdate event stream for work.
The subsystem does not produce any output messages either, instead it sends messages to Runtime API  to query for the pending PVFs and to submit votes.
In addition to that, it will also communicate with Candidate Validation Subsystem to request PVF pre-check.

If the node is running in a collator mode, this subsystem will be disabled.

The PVF pre-checker subsystem keeps track of the PVFs that are relevant for the subsystem. By  fetching them from runtime API 
for every active leave.
If the PVF is not present in any of the active leaves, it ceases to be relevant.
PVF-precheck subsystem ask Candidate Validation subsystem to check on the PVF validity the result is submited to runtime API with
`submit_pvf_check_statement`
In case, a judgement was received for a PVF that is no longer in view it is ignored. << This probably means that if CV taking long ot response for PVF that is not any more in activel lives then we ignore it

> Whe session changes (at least one of the new active leave session index is > then prev on any of the leaves)  subsystem resign and submit only new session PVFs.

Reviewer: What do you mean with "resign"? There is no mechanism to cancel to PVF pre-checking request sent to candidate validation, right?

> If node is not in active validator set it is till perform all the checks, however results are submitted only if in active validator set.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the node is not in the active validator set, it still performs all the checks. However results are submitted only if it is in the active set.
```

### Implementation 
```mermaid
graph TD
    A[Start: PvfCheckerSubsystem::start] --> C[run]
    C -->|precheck_response| D[precheck_response in queue?]
    D --> E[handle_pvf_check]
    E --> F{Judgement}
    F -->|Valid/Invalid/Failed| G[Update InterestView]
    G --> H{Has Credentials, Block, Session?}
    H -->|Yes| I[sign_and_submit_pvf_check_statement]
    H -->|No| J[Do Nothing]
    C -->|from_overseer| K[Receive Context]
    K --> L{FromOrchestra}
    L -->|Signal: Conclude| M[Return Ok exit]    
    L -->|Signal: ActiveLeaves| O[handle_leaves_update]
    O --> P{activated?}
    P -->|Yes| Q[examine_activation]
    Q --> R[Update State, InterestView, initiate_precheck for newcomers]
    R --> S{New Session?}
    S -->|Yes| T[Update session, voted, credentials, re-sign all judgements]
    S -->|No| U[Do Nothing]
    P -->|No| V[Update InterestView for deactivated]
    

```

The main module is within `polkadot/node/core/pvf-checker`.

Subsystem should listen to events from overseer and make periodic checks for PVF check results.

Subsystem operates within its `State`. Most important parts of which are collections of PVFs that are observed (`State::InterestView`) 

> and list of futures that hold results of currenlty checking PVFs (`State::currently_checking`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and list of futures that hold results of currently checking PVFs (`State::currently_checking`).
```

InterestView is a pretty simple struct with map.
currently_checking can be implemented via channel that is listening responses of PVF check goroutines.

> Results of PVF check (that is actually happening on Candidate Validation Subsystem) are should be signed and submit

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Results of PVF check (that is actually happening on Candidate Validation Subsystem) should be signed and submitted
```

to runtime via `runtime_api::submit_pvf_check_statement`

Subsystem handler only two messages from overseer, the `OverseerSignal::ActiveLeaves` and `OverseerSignal::Conclude`. 

> The Conlcude is pretty straight forward and should stop the subsystem process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Subsystem handles only two messages from overseer, the `OverseerSignal::ActiveLeaves` and `OverseerSignal::Conclude`. 
The Conclude is pretty straight forward and should stop the subsystem process.
```
